README.md, before:

# Stackbit Components Library

Check out the components at [https://components.stackbit.com/](https://components.stackbit.com/)


## Import Component Library into a Next.js theme

1. Use existing Next.js-Tailwind site or follow [these steps](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs) to create new one.
1. Install stackbit components library

   ```shell
   npm install @stackbit/components
   ```

1. Add one of the Stackbit component tailwind presets into your `tailwind.config.js`:

   ```js
   module.exports = {
     presets: [require('@stackbit/components/themes/tailwind.bold.config')],
     ...
   }
   ```
1. Import and use components in your code


## Develop locally

1. Clone the repo
1. run `npm install`
1. run `npm run storybook` or `npm run develop` to watch for `themes/tailwind.{theme_name}.config.js` files and rebuild them.
1. Navigate to http://localhost:6006/ to open Storybook

If you run `npm run storybook`, you will need to run `npm run build-themes` every time you change one of the tailwind configs inside `themes`.


## Building Storybook

To build Storybook run `npm build`, the generated files will be written to `storybook-static` folder.


## Building and Publishing Component Library

1. Check that all files are committed and there are no outstanding git changes.
1. Run `npm run version-patch` to update the patch `v0.1.0` => `v0.1.1` or run `npm run version-minor` to update the minor `v0.1.1` => `v0.2.0`. This script updates the versions of `package.json` and `package-lock.json`, commits the changes and applies a git tag with new version.
1. Run `npm run build-dist`. This scripts builds the component library and puts it into the `dist` folder.
1. Run `cd dist` and then run `npm publish` to publish the package.
1. Push changes to `main` branch


## Linking Component Library to a Next.js site locally.

1. Put the component library and Next.js site in sibling folders:

   ```
   .
   ├── stackbit-components
   └── nextjs-site
   ```

1. Follow the steps above to import the component library into a Next.js site
1. Run `npm run build-dist` inside `stackbit-components`
1. Run `npm link` inside `stackbit-components/dist`
1. Run `npm link @stackbit/components` inside `nextjs-site`
1. Configure your `next.config.js` to not follow symlinks:

   ```js
   module.exports = {
     ...
     webpack: (config) => {
         config.resolve.symlinks = false;
         return config;
     },
     ...
   };
   ```


## Themes

Every component can be rendered with a different theme. To change a theme in Storybook, click on the toolbar button with the "image" icon:

![Change theme](docs/changing-themes.png)

Every theme has a matching Tailwind config file in the `themes` folder. The configs files have the following format:

```
themes/tailwind.{theme_name}.config.js
```

Where the `{theme_name}` is an ID of a theme.

To build all tailwind configs run:

```shell
npm run build-themes
```

The generated CSS files will be written to `public/css/tailwind.{theme_name}.css`. These CSS files are only used by Storybook. When importing this library from your project, import tailwind config of a particular theme directly and use it as a preset:

```js
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    require('@stackbit/components/themes/tailwind.classic.config.js')
  ],
  // ...
}
```


## Variants

Some components might have several variants. To switch the variant, change the value of the component property responsible for the variant:

![Change theme](docs/changing-variants.png)

Commit message:

updated README.md in relation to local workflow with next.js

README.md, after:

# Stackbit Components Library

Check out the components at [https://components.stackbit.com/](https://components.stackbit.com/)


## Import Component Library into a Next.js theme

1. Use existing Next.js-Tailwind site or follow [these steps](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs) to create new one.
1. Install stackbit components library

   ```shell
   npm install @stackbit/components
   ```

1. Add one of the Stackbit component tailwind presets into your `tailwind.config.js`:

   ```js
   module.exports = {
     presets: [require('@stackbit/components/themes/tailwind.bold.config')],
     ...
   }
   ```
1. Import and use components in your code


## Develop locally

1. Clone the repo
1. run `npm install`
1. run `npm run storybook` or `npm run develop` to watch for `themes/tailwind.{theme_name}.config.js` files and rebuild them.
1. Navigate to http://localhost:6006/ to open Storybook

If you run `npm run storybook`, you will need to run `npm run build-themes` every time you change one of the tailwind configs inside `themes`.


## Building Storybook

To build Storybook run `npm build`, the generated files will be written to `storybook-static` folder.


## Building and Publishing Component Library

1. Check that all files are committed and there are no outstanding git changes.
1. Run `npm run version-patch` to update the patch `v0.1.0` => `v0.1.1` or run `npm run version-minor` to update the minor `v0.1.1` => `v0.2.0`. This script updates the versions of `package.json` and `package-lock.json`, commits the changes and applies a git tag with new version.
1. Run `npm run build-dist`. This scripts builds the component library and puts it into the `dist` folder.
1. Run `cd dist` and then run `npm publish` to publish the package.
1. Push changes to `main` branch


## Linking Component Library to a Next.js site locally.

1. Put the component library and Next.js site in sibling folders:

   ```
   .
   ├── stackbit-components
   └── nextjs-site
   ```

1. Follow the steps above to import the component library into a Next.js site
1. Run `npm run build-dist` inside `stackbit-components`
1. Run `npm link` inside `stackbit-components/dist`
1. Run `npm link @stackbit/components` inside `nextjs-site`
1. Configure your `next.config.js` to not follow symlinks:

   ```js
   module.exports = {
     ...
     webpack: (config) => {
         config.resolve.symlinks = false;
         return config;
     },
     ...
   };
   ```

1. Run babel in watch mode inside `stackbit-components`:
   
   ```
   babel --watch --config-file ./babel.dist.config.json --out-dir dist src
   ```

1. Start Next.js by running `npm next dev`.
1. You can now make changes in both repositories and see your changes appear immediately in browser.
1. Note, some changes might require to stop Next.js, remove the `.next` folder, and start it again. 


## Themes

Every component can be rendered with a different theme. To change a theme in Storybook, click on the toolbar button with the "image" icon:

![Change theme](docs/changing-themes.png)

Every theme has a matching Tailwind config file in the `themes` folder. The configs files have the following format:

```
themes/tailwind.{theme_name}.config.js
```

Where the `{theme_name}` is an ID of a theme.

To build all tailwind configs run:

```shell
npm run build-themes
```

The generated CSS files will be written to `public/css/tailwind.{theme_name}.css`. These CSS files are only used by Storybook. When importing this library from your project, import tailwind config of a particular theme directly and use it as a preset:

```js
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    require('@stackbit/components/themes/tailwind.classic.config.js')
  ],
  // ...
}
```


## Variants

Some components might have several variants. To switch the variant, change the value of the component property responsible for the variant:

![Change theme](docs/changing-variants.png)
